Correlation between DARWINs
Risk warning:
CFDs are complex instruments and come with a high risk of losing money rapidly due to leverage. 53% of retail investor accounts lose money when trading CFDs with this provider. You should consider whether you understand how CFDs work and whether you can afford to take the high risk of losing your money.
Skip to content
English
Čeština
Español
Français
Italiano
English
Show submenu for translations
Official Website
Log in
Sign up
Open main navigation
Close main navigation
Official Website
Log in
Sign up
English
Čeština
Español
Français
Italiano
English
Show submenu for translations
Contact us
Contact us
Darwinex Docs
There are no suggestions because the search field is empty.
Darwinex Docs
Managing a DARWIN portfolio
The DARWIN product class
Correlation between DARWINs
The correlation measures the degree to which two DARWINs' returns move in relation to each other.
What is correlation?
The correlation measures the degree to which two DARWINs' returns move in relation to each other.
Do they move in a similar fashion, or are they completely different?
This information is very important when it comes to creating a portfolio of DARWIN because, if the DARWINs are highly correlated, not only are we not diversifying but in effect, it would be the same as investing all our capital in just one DARWIN
.
The results of a correlation coefficient are
measured between +1 and -1
.
A value of
0
implies a
complete decorrelation.
Their returns move independently from one another.
A value of
1
implies the
maximum correlation, or perfect positive correlation,
in other words, there is a degree of dependency between the two DARWINs. When one of their quote prices rises, the other will also rise by the same proportion.
A value of
-1
implies the
maximum inverse correlation or a perfect negative correlation.
This means that when one of the DARWINs increases its quote price, the other will decrease by the same proportion.
Values
beyond +0.7 or -0.7
are considered
highly correlated
.
Where can this be checked?
All DARWINs have a ''Correlation'' tab made up of a correlation chart, as well as a graph where the return curve's movements for both DARWINs is shown.
Correlation Chart
This shows us the 10 most highly correlated DARWINs compared with the chosen DARWIN.
By clicking on the arrows just above the chosen DARWIN, you can see the next 10 most highly correlated DARWINs and so forth.
Return Curve's chart
You may use this to compare the returns between two DARWINs.
In addition, you can use the search bar to change the DARWIN which you want to compare by simply entering the ticker as shown below.
Furthermore, in the ''
Porfolio Risk
'' section, inside the DARWIN Terminal, you will have access to a correlation matrix which will show the correlation between all the DARWIN in which you are currently invested.
High and low correlation
Let's look at two cases of high and low correlation so as to ensure that you have fully understood the concept.
High Correlation
At a quick glance, you can see that these DARWINs' returns have moved symmetrically, therefore their correlation is 0.93.
Low Correlation
On the other hand, these two DARWINs, which returns have moved independently from each other, show a correlation of just -0.07.
Tips
1. Diversify to mitigate risk
At Darwinex we recommend investing in a diversified portfolio of DARWINs so as to minimize the portfolio's risk.
In order to do so correctly, check that the DARWINs you choose do not show a high correlation, either positive or negative.
2. Between -0.7 and +0.
Those DARWINs which have values between -0.5 and +0.5 are considered to be decorrelated. Beyond these values, correlation starts to become a factor to take into account when choosing DARWINs.
3. Correlation evolves
The fact that two DARWIN have been highly correlated for a time does not mean that their correlation value will remain the same throughout the future since correlation evolves with time.
The opposite is also true, so you have to periodically check your portfolio of DARWINs and ensure that there are no high levels of correlation among them.
Do you want to learn more?
We use the standard correlation formula taking into account last 3 months.
Your Darwinex Account
Regulation & Money Safety
Account Application
Deposits & Withdrawals
Partnerships
Account security
Trade with us
First Steps as a Trader
Trading Conditions
Trading Basics
MetaTrader Guide
Tradingview & Dxtrade
Providing a DARWIN
Managing a DARWIN portfolio
First Steps as an Investor
The DARWIN product class
Creating a DARWIN Portfolio
World of Darwinex
Darwinex Metrics and Graphs
Investment Attributes
DarwinIA Capital Allocation
Algorithmic Trading
From Trading as a Hobby, to Trading as a Profession
DARWIN Data Analytics for Algorithmic Trading
Algorithmic Trading: Training for and by Traders
Darwinex & IBKR
Darwinex Pro
About Darwinex Pro
Economics
Regulation Umbrella
Raising Capital
Pro - how do I get started?
The Pro investor experience
Copyright © 2025, Darwinex
Risk warning:
CFDs are complex instruments and come with a high risk of losing money rapidly due to leverage. 53% of retail investor accounts lose money when trading CFDs with this provider. You should consider whether you understand how CFDs work and whether you can afford to take the high risk of losing your money.
The Darwinex® brand and the Darwinex.com domain are commercial names used by Tradeslide Trading Tech Limited, a company regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the United Kingdom with FRN 586466 and company registration number 08061368, by Sapiens Markets EU Sociedad de Valores SA, a company regulated by the Comisión Nacional del Mercado de Valores (CNMV) in Spain under the number 311, with CIF A10537348 and by Tradeslide Global Ltd., a company authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) of Seychelles with number SD171, company registration number 8433817-1.
Risk warning:
CFDs are complex instruments and come with a high risk of losing money rapidly due to leverage. 53% of retail investor accounts lose money when trading CFDs with this provider. You should consider whether you understand how CFDs work and whether you can afford to take the high risk of losing your money.