Performance Fees for DARWIN providers
Risk warning:
CFDs are complex instruments and come with a high risk of losing money rapidly due to leverage. 53% of retail investor accounts lose money when trading CFDs with this provider. You should consider whether you understand how CFDs work and whether you can afford to take the high risk of losing your money.
Skip to content
English
Čeština
Español
Français
Italiano
English
Show submenu for translations
Official Website
Log in
Sign up
Open main navigation
Close main navigation
Official Website
Log in
Sign up
English
Čeština
Español
Français
Italiano
English
Show submenu for translations
Contact us
Contact us
Darwinex Docs
There are no suggestions because the search field is empty.
Darwinex Docs
Providing a DARWIN
Performance Fees for DARWIN providers
Earn 15% of the net profits of your investors in a legal way.
Manage investor capital with your DARWIN
Thanks to Darwinex you will be able to manage third party capital indirectly under the coverage of our
license as a capital management firm.
We apply a risk management layer to your trading strategy transforming it into a new product, the DARWIN, which will replicate your entries and exits paying wholesale brokerage fees, 60% cheaper than retail.
DARWIN leverage is defined by our
risk engine
and all DARWINs trade with a target risk level within the range of 3.25-6.5% monthly VaR at 95% confidence.
This risk management by Darwinex algorithms is entirely independent from that of the DARWIN provider. This enables compliance with regulatory requirements thus ensuring that you can get paid performance fees from our asset manager.
Performance Fee & Investor Behaviour section
More info about performance fees
Performance Fees
Darwinex charges a 20% performance fee on any 3rd party profit in DARWINs. 15% is for you, 5% for Darwinex.
Quarterly Payments
Performance fees get paid quarterly on a
High-Water Mark
basis. An Investor's first investment in a DARWIN marks the effective start date of the quarter investing in that DARWIN.
Total Transparency
You'll be able to see individual investments and high-water mark quarter ends for every investor in your DARWIN, updated daily. Please, click
HERE
to be get access to your performance fee section.
More than $5 M paid so far
So far we've paid DARWIN providers in excess of $5 million in performance fees. This information is public and is updated daily on the
Hall of Fame
section.
Your Darwinex Account
Regulation & Money Safety
Account Application
Deposits & Withdrawals
Partnerships
Account security
Trade with us
First Steps as a Trader
Trading Conditions
Trading Basics
MetaTrader Guide
Tradingview & Dxtrade
Providing a DARWIN
Managing a DARWIN portfolio
First Steps as an Investor
The DARWIN product class
Creating a DARWIN Portfolio
World of Darwinex
Darwinex Metrics and Graphs
Investment Attributes
DarwinIA Capital Allocation
Algorithmic Trading
From Trading as a Hobby, to Trading as a Profession
DARWIN Data Analytics for Algorithmic Trading
Algorithmic Trading: Training for and by Traders
Darwinex & IBKR
Darwinex Pro
About Darwinex Pro
Economics
Regulation Umbrella
Raising Capital
Pro - how do I get started?
The Pro investor experience
Copyright © 2025, Darwinex
Risk warning:
CFDs are complex instruments and come with a high risk of losing money rapidly due to leverage. 53% of retail investor accounts lose money when trading CFDs with this provider. You should consider whether you understand how CFDs work and whether you can afford to take the high risk of losing your money.
The Darwinex® brand and the Darwinex.com domain are commercial names used by Tradeslide Trading Tech Limited, a company regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the United Kingdom with FRN 586466 and company registration number 08061368, by Sapiens Markets EU Sociedad de Valores SA, a company regulated by the Comisión Nacional del Mercado de Valores (CNMV) in Spain under the number 311, with CIF A10537348 and by Tradeslide Global Ltd., a company authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) of Seychelles with number SD171, company registration number 8433817-1.
Risk warning:
CFDs are complex instruments and come with a high risk of losing money rapidly due to leverage. 53% of retail investor accounts lose money when trading CFDs with this provider. You should consider whether you understand how CFDs work and whether you can afford to take the high risk of losing your money.