Scoring | Numerai Docs
Skip to content
Search
K
Main Navigation
Tournaments
Numerai
Signals
Crypto
Hedge Fund
Forum
Blog
Appearance
Menu
Return to top
Sidebar Navigation
Numerai
Getting Started
FAQ
API & MCP
Data
Models
Submissions
Model Uploads
Numerai CLI
NGROK Example
CRON Example
Scoring
Definitions
Correlation (CORR)
Meta Model Contribution (MMC)
Feature Neutral Correlation (FNC)
Grandmasters & Seasons
Staking
Bounties
Contacts
Signals
Overview
Data
Models
Submissions
Scoring
Definitions
Alpha
Meta Portfolio Contribution (MPC)
Staking
Signals + QuantConnect
Crypto
Overview
Data
Submissions
Scoring
Definitions
Staking
Community
Overview
Office Hours with Arbitrage
Discord
Forum
Twitter
Youtube
NMR
Token Data
Coinbase
Uniswap
Etherscan
Github
Treasury
Hot Wallet
On this page
Scoring
​
There are two main scores currently used for payouts:
Alpha: Your neutral-weighted predictions multiplied by the
chili
target
Meta Portfolio Contribution (
MPC
): Your predictions' contribution to the Meta Portfolio
We also have informational scores not used for payouts:
Correlation
(
CORRv4
): Your prediction's correlation to the target
Information Coefficient (
ICv2
): Your prediction's correlation to raw returns
Residual Information Coefficient (
RIC
): Your prediction's correlation to residual returns (returns
neutralized
to common factors)
NCORR: Your prediction is neutralized with the Signals v3 giant neutralizer, then correlated with the Jupiter 60D2L target
NMMC: Your neutralized prediction's contribution to the v3 neutral stake-weighted Meta Model (
v3NUSWMM
), evaluated against the Jupiter 60D2L target
NCORR and NMMC are displayed for research and do not currently determine payouts. Missing historical values are shown as unavailable, not as zero. Legacy MMC and FNCv4 history remains available through the API but is no longer shown as a current Signals score choice.
For a full list of detailed explanations please see the
definitions docs
.
Leaderboard eligibility
​
A Signals model must have both NCORR and NMMC reputations to appear on the leaderboard. Its account must be verified and the model must not be archived. These reputations use fully resolved 60-day scores. Partial round scores and legacy 20-day reputations do not qualify a model for inclusion.
Neutralization
​
A signal or target is considered "neutral" when it has zero correlation with some set of existing signals. The point of the neutralization is to isolate the original or orthogonal component of the signal that is not already present in existing signals.
WARNING
If you submit a simple linear combination of a few well-known signals, there will be little to no orthogonal component after neutralization.
Numerai has a variety of existing signals including Barra factors (like size, value, momentum, etc.), country and sector risk factors, and custom stock features. Not all of these existing signals are provided to you, which makes this process somewhat "blackbox".
By neutralizing your signal before scoring, Numerai aligns it with the neutralized target which may improve its performance against the target without Numerai having to give out the data used for neutralization. For example, if your signal is not neutralized to country risks, Numerai Signals will neutralize your signal against country risks before scoring. This allows you to focus on creating an original signal without having to worry about country risk neutralization.
A signal may have strong predictive power when considered alone, but could score poorly on Numerai Signals due to this neutralization. This highlights the key unique aspect of Signals:
Numerai Signals is not about predicting stock returns, it is about finding original signals that Numerai doesn't already have.
The Target
​
Signals are evaluated against a custom blackbox target that is neutralized against our existing signals.
We provide both
20D2L and 60D2L
targets in our dataset. We do not use shorter time horizons because signals that only work on short time horizons are nearly impossible for large hedge funds to trade. For example, even if a signal can accurately predict the 1 hour return of stocks, it is not very useful if it takes a hedge fund 24 hours to fully trade into that position. Signals that are most useful to large hedge funds have predictive power over a long time horizon which is also known as having "low alpha decay".
Grandmasters
​
Grandmasters
place first
Masters
place in the top 10
Experts
place in the top 25%
Researchers
place in the top 50%
Contributors
place in the top 75%
Apprentices
place in the bottom 25%
Novices
have not yet made 20 qualified submissions
Canon Scores
​
In the context of the Signals tournament, Canonical Scores (or “Canon Scores”) are particularly relevant. For example, the FNC score, which is a payout metric, has undergone updates. Initially, the payout score was 'CORR20' until round 498. It evolved into 'FNCv4' starting from round 499. The 'Canon FNC' score accounts for these changes by combining them into a unified score — it is 'CORR20' for rounds up to and including 498 and 'FNCv4' for rounds thereafter.
Canon Alpha and Canon MPC each track their own metric and are the scores to read for current Signals payouts. Canon CORR and Canon MMC remain continuous legacy series: past the rounds where Signals last selected an exact CORR or MMC source, they follow the payout metric that replaced it (FNC, then Alpha, and MPC respectively). Prefer Canon Alpha and Canon MPC when you need a specific metric, and do not read Canon CORR or Canon MMC as exact CORR or MMC values for recent rounds.
Diagnostics
​
You can use the historical diagnostics of your signal to check performance and estimate the impact neutralization may have on your signal in the future. It’s important to note that signals with strong scores over the historical period may not score well in any current or future round.
The diagnostics tool can be opened using the beaker next to your model on the
scores
page. Upload a signal over a historical
validation
time period and it will calculate
validation
metrics including performance, risk, and potential earnings. The
validation
time period starts on
20130104
and ends on the latest date in the
validation
data.
Uploads over the
validation
time period must include one extra column:
A
date
column - historic data is weekly and the diagnostics tool assumes your predictions for a given week are made using market close data of the latest Friday
Once your upload is validated, diagnostics will start running. This usually takes 5-10 minutes depending on the number of weeks and tickers that span your submission.
These diagnostics serve as a guide for you to estimate whether your signal is good enough to be worth staking on. It is important to note that signals with strong diagnostics over the historical
validation
period may not score well in any current or future
live
periods.
WARNING
Using this historical evaluation tool repeatedly will quickly lead to overfitting. Treat diagnostics only as a final check in your signal creation process.
What is neutral churn?
​
Churn describes how much a signal changes over time. Signals measures this after removing the effects captured by the neutralizer data for each week. The calculation is available in
numerai-tools
.
Use the
Signals v3.0 neutralizers
for both submissions, with each submission's matching data date. Rank the available predictions on the full dated universe, then fill missing ranks with
0.5
before Gaussianizing and neutralizing. Keep the full neutralizer universe, including stocks you did not submit. Neutral churn does not use v2.1 neutralizers or sample weights. For the
numerai-tools
mean helper's sample-weight arguments, pass a series of ones indexed by each date's full v3.0 neutralizer universe.
Published live snapshots are used when available. Older submissions without a published live file use the historical v3 neutralizers.
In short:
neutral_churn(t0, t1) = 1 - rank_correlation(neutral_signal(t0), neutral_signal(t1))
Why calculate neutral churn?
​
Lower neutral churn means a model's distinct signal is more stable from week to week. This makes it easier to use in the Signals Meta Model.
Mean neutral churn
​
When you upload a submission, Signals compares it with up to five of your most recent selected submissions that arrived before their deadlines. The reported value is the mean of those neutral-churn comparisons:
mean_neutral_churn = mean([neutral_churn(current, recent_1), ..., neutral_churn(current, recent_5)])
If no comparison can be calculated, the reported value is
1.0
. Signals no longer calculates turnover during submission validation. Neutral churn does not reject a submission or set its stake to zero.
Pager
Next page
Getting Started
© 2026 Numerai